Finishing your work for a project
is not the same as closing it.
There are still five important steps you need to take
to successfully hand over a project,
wrap project activities,
and protect your company from potential liabilities.
Follow these five steps to finish a project strong.
Obtaining approvals is the first step
to closing your project once your work is finished.
Deliver your project to the client or executive management
for final approval.
All parties must formally recognize
that the project is complete,
and satisfies agreed upon criteria.
Keep signatures or written confirmation
of the project's transfer and acceptance
for your records.
A quick word of warning:
You cannot continue with the next closing activities
without your client's official sign-off.
Make any necessary revisions
before moving on to the next step.
Next, organize and Archive all project documentation.
That includes copies of contracts, financial records,
and project management documents
like the business case, project plan, or schedules.
It also includes project assets
such as templates, media files,
or even a copy of the finished product.
You may feel like you'll never need these documents again,
but you never know when they may help you
with a similar project in the future.
The third step is to Close finances and contracts.
Review and close all contracts with the project team,
suppliers, or any other vendors.
Complete any outstanding payments,
and finalize any last financial processes or reports.
The fourth step is to Review lessons learned.
This step is often overlooked.
Call your project team together for a final meeting
to discuss how the project went.
Discuss what worked well, what didn't work well,
and how the project or process could be improved.
Document lessons learned,
and review these insights for future projects
to avoid making the same mistakes.
The last step is to Release the project's resources.
That means you need to officially disband the project team
so that they can work on other projects
or normal business operations.
It also means returning any equipment or tools
that you no longer need.
Project closure is a crucial step
in the project management process.
You don't want to get stuck in a project that never ends,
or find yourself responsible for a project
that didn't fulfill it's goals or contract
with outstanding payments.
Turn these five steps into a checklist
that you can review at the end of every project.